# Improved-Hardware-design-of-Matrix-Multiplier.
# How is it different from a general matrix multiplier?
As we know Multipliers are essential for DSP system to perform operations such as Convolution, Discrete Wavelet Transform, Fast Fourier Transform, and Filtering etc, but as we know for normal computations in a matrix the latency delay is high and also power dissipation is more. A Multiplier is a one of the arithmetic circuit which plays a major role in many computational systems. These systems speed greatly depends on the speed of its multiplier units and it is the primary responsibility of power consumption in the system. In this work, delay and power of the proposed reversible Vedic multiplier using Urdhva Tiryakbhayam sutra are calculated and compared with existing reversible and conventional logic Urdhva Tiryakbhayam multiplier.So, To implement fast multiplication operations, Vedic mathematics are involved based on 16 sutras, each with its special characteristics. This technique usually reduces the area and delay of the processors.
# What is Reversible Logic Gate?
A Reversible logic gate is an m-input m-output (denoted by m x m) digital logic circuit that generate a unique output vector from each input vector and vice versa. The few design parameters used to evaluate the performance of the reversible circuit are Gate count, Constant inputs, Garbage outputs and Quantum cost etc.
# Why was it neccessary to use reversible logic gates?
To reduce quantum cost, garbage outputs and dissipation power we used reversible logic gates. The researcher R. Landauer demonstrated that during irreversible logic operations when each bit of information lost results in KTln2 joules of energy dissipation regardless of the underlying technology. Where K = Boltzmann’s constant and T = Temperature
